README.md, before:

# raylib-physfs

Integrate the virtual file system [PhysicsFS](https://icculus.org/physfs/) with [raylib](https://www.raylib.com/), allowing to load images, audio, and fonts from data archives.

## Features

- Load the following data from archives
    - Images with `LoadImageFromPhysFS()`
    - Textures with `LoadTextureFromPhysFS()`
    - Music with `LoadMusicStreamFromPhysFS()`
    - Waves with `LoadWaveFromPhysFS()`
    - Fonts with `LoadFontFromPhysFS()`
    - Text with `LoadFileTextFromPhysFS()`
    - Shaders with `LoadShaderFromPhysFS()`
- Check if directories and files exist
- Enumerate across multiple archives and mount paths
- Save files through PhysFS
- Set all file loading to use PhysFS with `SetPhysFSCallbacks()`

## Usage

This is a single-file header. To use it, define `RAYLIB_PHYSFS_IMPLEMENTATION` in one `.c` source file before including [`raylib-physfs.h`](include/raylib-physfs.h). You will also have to link the PhysFS and raylib dependencies.

### Example

``` c
#define RAYLIB_PHYSFS_IMPLEMENTATION
#include "raylib-physfs.h"

int main() {
    // Initiatize the file system.
    InitPhysFS();

    // Mount a directory or archive.
    MountPhysFS("assets.zip", "assets");

    // Load an image through PhysFS.
    Image dog = LoadImageFromPhysFS("assets/dog.png");

    // Close the file system.
    ClosePhysFS();
}
```

### API

``` c
bool InitPhysFS();                                              // Initialize the PhysFS file system
bool ClosePhysFS();                                             // Close the PhysFS file system
bool IsPhysFSReady();                                           // Check if PhysFS has been initialized successfully
bool MountPhysFS(const char* newDir, const char* mountPoint);   // Mount the given directory or archive as a mount point
bool MountPhysFSFromMemory(const unsigned char *fileData, int dataSize, const char* newDir, const char* mountPoint);  // Mount the given file data as a mount point
bool UnmountPhysFS(const char* oldDir);                         // Unmounts the given directory
bool FileExistsInPhysFS(const char* fileName);                  // Check if the given file exists in PhysFS
bool DirectoryExistsInPhysFS(const char* dirPath);              // Check if the given directory exists in PhysFS
unsigned char* LoadFileDataFromPhysFS(const char* fileName, unsigned int* bytesRead);  // Load a data buffer from PhysFS (memory should be freed)
char* LoadFileTextFromPhysFS(const char* fileName);             // Load text from a file (memory should be freed)
bool SetPhysFSWriteDirectory(const char* newDir);               // Set the base directory where PhysFS should write files to (defaults to the current working directory)
bool SaveFileDataToPhysFS(const char* fileName, void* data, unsigned int bytesToWrite);  // Save the given file data in PhysFS
bool SaveFileTextToPhysFS(const char* fileName, char* text);    // Save the given file text in PhysFS
char** GetDirectoryFilesFromPhysFS(const char* dirPath, int* count);  // Get filenames in a directory path (memory should be freed)
void ClearDirectoryFilesFromPhysFS(char** filesList);           // Clear directory files paths buffers (free memory)
long GetFileModTimeFromPhysFS(const char* fileName);            // Get file modification time (last write time) from PhysFS
Image LoadImageFromPhysFS(const char* fileName);                // Load an image from PhysFS
Texture2D LoadTextureFromPhysFS(const char* fileName);          // Load a texture from PhysFS
Wave LoadWaveFromPhysFS(const char* fileName);                  // Load wave data from PhysFS
Music LoadMusicStreamFromPhysFS(const char* fileName);          // Load music data from PhysFS
Font LoadFontFromPhysFS(const char* fileName, int fontSize, int *fontChars, int charsCount);  // Load a font from PhysFS
Shader LoadShaderFromPhysFS(const char *vsFileName, const char *fsFileName);  // Load shader from PhysFS
void SetPhysFSCallbacks();                                      // Set the raylib file loader/saver callbacks to use PhysFS
```

### Defines

Add these defines to help shape the behaviour of raylib-physfs...

- `RAYLIB_PHYSFS_IMPLEMENTATION` Define this in one of your `.c`/`.cpp` files prior to including *raylib-physfs.h*
- `RAYLIB_PHYSFS_STATIC` Use [`static`](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Static_(keyword)) function definitions

## Development

To build the examples locally, and run tests, use [cmake](https://cmake.org/).

``` bash
git submodule update --init
mkdir build
cd build
cmake ..
make
make test
cd examples
./textures_image_loading
```

## License

raylib-physfs is licensed under an unmodified zlib/libpng license, which is an OSI-certified, BSD-like license that allows static linking with closed source software. Check [LICENSE](LICENSE) for further details.

Commit message:

Switch to miniphysfs (#5)
This change replaces physfs with miniphysfs to reduce the dependency tree and simplify the build.

README.md, after:

# raylib-physfs

Integrate the virtual file system [PhysicsFS](https://icculus.org/physfs/) with [raylib](https://www.raylib.com/), allowing to load images, audio, and fonts from data archives. This uses [miniphysfs](https://github.com/edubart/miniphysfs) to reduce the dependency tree.

## Features

- Load the following data from archives
    - Images with `LoadImageFromPhysFS()`
    - Textures with `LoadTextureFromPhysFS()`
    - Music with `LoadMusicStreamFromPhysFS()`
    - Waves with `LoadWaveFromPhysFS()`
    - Fonts with `LoadFontFromPhysFS()`
    - Text with `LoadFileTextFromPhysFS()`
    - Shaders with `LoadShaderFromPhysFS()`
- Check if directories and files exist
- Enumerate across multiple archives and mount paths
- Save files through PhysFS
- Set all file loading to use PhysFS with `SetPhysFSCallbacks()`

## Usage

This is a header library. To use it, define `RAYLIB_PHYSFS_IMPLEMENTATION` in one `.c` source file before including [`raylib-physfs.h`](include/raylib-physfs.h). You will also have to link the raylib dependencies.

### Example

``` c
#define RAYLIB_PHYSFS_IMPLEMENTATION
#include "raylib-physfs.h"

int main() {
    // Initiatize the file system.
    InitPhysFS();

    // Mount a directory or archive into a given namespace.
    MountPhysFS("assets.zip", "assets");

    // Load an image through PhysFS.
    Image dog = LoadImageFromPhysFS("assets/dog.png");

    // Close the file system.
    ClosePhysFS();
}
```

### API

``` c
bool InitPhysFS();                                              // Initialize the PhysFS file system
bool ClosePhysFS();                                             // Close the PhysFS file system
bool IsPhysFSReady();                                           // Check if PhysFS has been initialized successfully
bool MountPhysFS(const char* newDir, const char* mountPoint);   // Mount the given directory or archive as a mount point
bool MountPhysFSFromMemory(const unsigned char *fileData, int dataSize, const char* newDir, const char* mountPoint);  // Mount the given file data as a mount point
bool UnmountPhysFS(const char* oldDir);                         // Unmounts the given directory
bool FileExistsInPhysFS(const char* fileName);                  // Check if the given file exists in PhysFS
bool DirectoryExistsInPhysFS(const char* dirPath);              // Check if the given directory exists in PhysFS
unsigned char* LoadFileDataFromPhysFS(const char* fileName, unsigned int* bytesRead);  // Load a data buffer from PhysFS (memory should be freed)
char* LoadFileTextFromPhysFS(const char* fileName);             // Load text from a file (memory should be freed)
bool SetPhysFSWriteDirectory(const char* newDir);               // Set the base directory where PhysFS should write files to (defaults to the current working directory)
bool SaveFileDataToPhysFS(const char* fileName, void* data, unsigned int bytesToWrite);  // Save the given file data in PhysFS
bool SaveFileTextToPhysFS(const char* fileName, char* text);    // Save the given file text in PhysFS
char** GetDirectoryFilesFromPhysFS(const char* dirPath, int* count);  // Get filenames in a directory path (memory should be freed)
void ClearDirectoryFilesFromPhysFS(char** filesList);           // Clear directory files paths buffers (free memory)
long GetFileModTimeFromPhysFS(const char* fileName);            // Get file modification time (last write time) from PhysFS
Image LoadImageFromPhysFS(const char* fileName);                // Load an image from PhysFS
Texture2D LoadTextureFromPhysFS(const char* fileName);          // Load a texture from PhysFS
Wave LoadWaveFromPhysFS(const char* fileName);                  // Load wave data from PhysFS
Music LoadMusicStreamFromPhysFS(const char* fileName);          // Load music data from PhysFS
Font LoadFontFromPhysFS(const char* fileName, int fontSize, int *fontChars, int charsCount);  // Load a font from PhysFS
Shader LoadShaderFromPhysFS(const char *vsFileName, const char *fsFileName);  // Load shader from PhysFS
void SetPhysFSCallbacks();                                      // Set the raylib file loader/saver callbacks to use PhysFS
```

### Defines

Add these defines to help shape the behaviour of raylib-physfs...

- `RAYLIB_PHYSFS_IMPLEMENTATION` Define this in one of your `.c`/`.cpp` files prior to including *raylib-physfs.h*
- `RAYLIB_PHYSFS_STATIC` Use [`static`](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Static_(keyword)) function definitions
- `PHYSFS_SUPPORTS_ONLY_ZIP` Only support .zip archives, rather than all the available ones.

## Development

To build the examples locally, and run tests, use [cmake](https://cmake.org/).

``` bash
git clone https://github.com/RobLoach/raylib-physfs.git
cd raylib-physfs
git submodule update --init
mkdir build
cd build
cmake ..
make
make test
cd examples
./textures_image_loading
```

## License

*raylib-physfs* is licensed under an unmodified zlib/libpng license, which is an OSI-certified, BSD-like license that allows static linking with closed source software. Check [LICENSE](LICENSE) for further details.
